README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/synyx/tales/workflows/Tales%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/synyx/tales/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Tales+CI%22)

# Tales

Professional storytelling risen to the next level - achievable for everyone!


## What is Tales?

Tales is invented to create browser-run presentations based on arbitrary images - easily and fast. All you need is an
image, which then serves as the central theme of your presentation. By zooming into and out of details in this image,
you tell your Story: Tales overcomes the boundedness of isolated slides and allows you to focus on connections and
details of what you think is worth telling the world! And based on the very same image your Stories can easily be
customized, e.g. to address audiences with different backgrounds or time restrictions for your presentation. Just
control the depth by which you zoom into details, but never lose the possibility to navigate at will through your Story.


## Why using Tales?

Ordinary slide-based presentations normally are composed of mostly text and bullet points. Using text to communicate
information is good - but the processing depth of the brain of an image is much deeper! So, compared to ordinary slides,
presenting your Story based on an image makes it easier and more fun for your audience to follow and to not lose
focus and interest. They will be thrilled by your ideas!
As a side effect, you can directly use your Story as an offline product, by printing it e.g. on paper, t-shirts
or tissues.


## Hard facts:

- No need to register for a user account
- Tales runs with Java - no complicated installation process is needed
- Tales is free and Open Source - no hidden costs, no costly license model
- Tell your Tale on your website - easily export the Tale to HTML


# Talecabulary

You are the **Bookbinder** and the **Storyteller**! The image you use is the idea you want the convey, that is the
**Tale** you want to tell. Your Tale consists of several **Sections** (that replace slides), which are assembled in the
Storyline of your Tale. **Chapters** can further structure your Sections, making the Story more understandable.


## Prerequisites

All you need is the image, a web browser and Java installed! :) Tales supports all kinds of image formats, from simple
jpg to sophisticated vector graphics.


## Installation

- Install Java (if you do not already have it)
- Download the JAR file of the latest [release of Tales]
- Execute the JAR
- Point your browser to localhost:3000


## Taletorial

Set up your first Tale.

- Create an image that tells the Tale you want to share
- Start Tales
- Open your web browser and go to the following address: `localhost:3000`
- Enter the name of your Tale and press enter
- Choose the Tale you want to tell, that is the path to your image on your computer
- Now press `Ctrl` (or `cmd` on a Mac) and use your mouse to create the your Sections
- Check your Tale in the Storyline, and use the left and right arrows on your keyboard while pressing `Shift`to
 rearrange the order of your sections, or use `Delete` to remove a slide
- Press `Tell!` and tell your Tale by using the left and right arrows of your keyboard to navigate among the sections
- Use the `Back` Button of your browser to return into the edit mode for your Tale

A video tutorial is coming soon!


## Examples

Some examples of already existing Tales:
- What is Tales: A Tale about Tales
- Unternehmen im Wandel
- Umgekehrte Architekturanalyse im Datastore Umfeld
- Ihr redet über Resilience und wisst nicht was CAP und Co ist?
- Eine kleine Reise durch NoSQL


# Contributing

- Install `git`
- Install `make`
- Install `go`
- Install `nodejs`
- Build with `make all`


# Licencse

Apache 2.0

[release of Tales]: https://github.com/synyx/tales/releases
[Leiningen]: https://leiningen.org/

Commit message:

Update prerequisites and installation process
* Java is no longer required: Tales uses a
  native server executable and Electron
* fix spelling and readability

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/synyx/tales/workflows/Tales%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/synyx/tales/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Tales+CI%22)

# Tales

Professional storytelling risen to the next level - achievable for everyone!


## What is Tales?

Tales is invented to create browser-run presentations based on arbitrary images - easily and fast. All you need is an
image, which then serves as the central theme of your presentation. By zooming into and out of details in this image,
you tell your Story: Tales overcomes the boundedness of isolated slides and allows you to focus on connections and
details of what you think is worth telling the world! And based on the very same image your Stories can easily be
customized, e.g. to address audiences with different backgrounds or time restrictions for your presentation. Just
control the depth by which you zoom into details, but never lose the possibility to navigate at will through your Story.


## Why using Tales?

Ordinary slide-based presentations normally are composed of mostly text and bullet points. Using text to communicate
information is good - but the processing depth of the brain of an image is much deeper! So, compared to ordinary slides,
presenting your Story based on an image makes it easier and more fun for your audience to follow and to not lose
focus and interest. They will be thrilled by your ideas!
As a side effect, you can directly use your Story as an offline product, by printing it e.g. on paper, t-shirts
or tissues.


## Hard facts:

- No need to register for a user account
- Tales runs with Java - no complicated installation process is needed
- Tales is free and Open Source - no hidden costs, no costly license model
- Tell your Tale on your website - easily export the Tale to HTML


# Talecabulary

You are the **Bookbinder** and the **Storyteller**! The image you use is the idea you want to convey, that is the
**Tale** you want to tell. Your Tale consists of several **Sections** (that replace slides), which are assembled in the
Storyline of your Tale. **Chapters** can further structure your Sections, making the Story more understandable.


## Prerequisites

All you need is a computer running Windows, Linux or MacOS – and the image with your Tale! :) 
Tales supports all kinds of image formats, from simple JPEGs to sophisticated vector graphics like SVGs.


## Installation

- Download the [latest release of Tales] for your platform. 
  Usually only the `tales-desktop-...` version is needed.
- Execute the downloaded file.


## Taletorial

Set up your first Tale.

- Create an image that tells the Tale you want to share.
- Start Tales.
- Enter the name of your Tale and press enter.
- Choose the Tale you want to tell, that is the path to your image on your computer.
- Now press `Ctrl` (or `cmd` on a Mac) and use your mouse to create your Sections.
- Check your Tale in the Storyline, and use the left and right arrows on your keyboard while pressing `Shift`to
  rearrange the order of your sections, or press `Delete` to remove a slide.
- Press `Tell!` and tell your Tale by using the left and right arrows of your keyboard to navigate between the sections.
- Use the `Back` Button of your browser to return to the editor.

A video tutorial is coming soon!


## Examples

Some examples of already existing Tales:
- What is Tales: A Tale about Tales
- Unternehmen im Wandel
- Umgekehrte Architekturanalyse im Datastore Umfeld
- Ihr redet über Resilience und wisst nicht was CAP und Co ist?
- Eine kleine Reise durch NoSQL


# Contributing

- Install `git`
- Install `make`
- Install `go`
- Install `nodejs`
- Build with `make all`


# Licencse

Apache 2.0

[latest release of Tales]: https://github.com/synyx/tales/releases/latest
